The Dfuzz Distributed Fuzzing Framework is a project that uses Volunteer Computing to distribute fuzzing across multiple computers.  The framework utilizes virtualization technology to provide automation, stability, and network elasticity. Each client (or volunteer of the network) is packaged in an Open Virtualization Formatted (OVF) file. This provides end users an easy, safe and platform independent way to install a client on their system. All a user needs is virtualization software installed on their host system (eg., Vmware Player, Vmware Workstation, Vmware ESX/ESXi/Vsphere, Virtualbox, Redhat Enterprise Virtualization, Oracle VM, OpenNode, IBM Power, etc..). The OVF file format provides support for a single virtual guest instance (maybe a laptop or desktop user) all the way up to large cloud infrastructures (maybe a cloud with 50 or 100 or 1000 or more guest instances).

One of the goals of Dfuzz is to utilize volunteer computing to find and analyse security issues in software applications. By packaging the client in an easily distributable format the hope is that users with little or no fuzzing skills, all the way up to high performance fuzzing ninjas, can participate and contribute to the project.

The Dfuzz architecture is built to support the inclusion and extension of multiple fuzzers. By utilizing the power of pre-existing fuzzers and providing a framework for future fuzzers the hope is that the Dfuzz framework will be agile enough to significantly contribute to a diverse set of software security analysis tasks.

Note: This project is still under development.