=Open Virtualization Format (OVF)=
The following excerpt is a quote from the OVF Standard ( http://www.dmtf.org/standards/published_documents/DSP0243_1.0.0.pdf )

"The Open Virtualization Format (OVF) Specification describes an open, secure, portable, efficient and extensible format for the packaging and distribution of software to be run in virtual machines. The key properties of the format are as follows:

==Optimized for distribution==
OVF supports content verification and integrity checking based on industry-standard public key infrastructure, and it provides a basic scheme for management of software licensing.

==Optimized for a simple, automated user experience==
OVF supports validation of the entire package and each virtual machine or metadata
component of the OVF during the installation phases of the virtual machine (VM) lifecycle management process. It also packages with the package relevant user-readable descriptive information that a virtualization platform can use to streamline the installation experience.

==Supports both single VM and multiple-VM configurations==
OVF supports both standard single VM packages and packages containing complex, multi-tier services consisting of multiple interdependent VMs.

==Portable VM packaging==
OVF is virtualization platform neutral, while also enabling platform-specific enhancements to be captured. It supports the full range of virtual hard disk formats used for hypervisors today, and it is extensible, which allow it to accommodate formats that may arise in the future. Virtual machine properties are captured concisely and accurately.

==Vendor and platform independent==
OVF does not rely on the use of a specific host platform, virtualization platform, or guest operating system.


==Extensible==
OVF is immediately useful — and extensible. It is designed to be extended as the industry moves forward with virtual appliance technology. It also supports and permits the encoding of vendor-specific metadata to support specific vertical markets.

==Localizable==
OVF supports user-visible descriptions in multiple locales, and it supports localization of the interactive processes during installation of an appliance. This capability allows a single packaged appliance to serve multiple market opportunities.


==Open standard==
OVF has arisen from the collaboration of key vendors in the industry, and it is developed in an accepted industry forum as a future standard for portable virtual machines."